W-21889645 lookup tables (#277)
mulesoft/docs-partner-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/lookup-tables-dataweave.adoc

= Using Lookup Tables in DataWeave

Use DataWeave lookup utility functions to retrieve values from Partner Manager lookup tables during map execution.

To call lookup tables from DataWeave, import the lookup utilities module:

[source,dwl]
----
import * from modules::b2blookuputils
----

== Function Compatibility by Lookup Table Type

Lookup functions are type-specific and can't be used interchangeably.

[%header,cols="2,2"]
|===
|Function |Supported table type

|`b2bCompositeKeyLookup`
|Composite Key Lookup only

|`b2bCrossReferenceLookup`
|Cross-Reference Lookup only

|`b2bGenericLookup`
|Generic-enabled tables only

|`b2bGenericLookupWithFilter`
|Generic-enabled tables only
|===

[IMPORTANT]
If a function is called with an unsupported table type, the lookup call fails.

== Composite Key Lookup

Function: `b2bCompositeKeyLookup(tableName, lookupObject, failIfNoMatchFound)`

> Use this function only with tables of type *Composite Key Lookup*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this function only with *Composite Key Lookup* table types.
```

=== Parameters

[%header,cols="1,1,1,3"]
|===
|Parameter |Type |Required |Description

|`tableName`
|String
|Yes
|Lookup table name.

|`lookupObject`
|Object
|Yes
|Key-value pairs where each key is a table column name and each value is the value to match.

|`failIfNoMatchFound`
|Boolean (default `true`)
|No
|If `false`, the function returns empty data when no match is found.
|===

=== Response

[%header,cols="1,1,3"]
|===
|Field |Type |Description

|`status`
|String
|Lookup operation status.

|`errorMessage`
|String
|Error details when the operation fails.

|`data`
|Object
|Matching row data.
|===

Example:

[source,dwl]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
import * from modules::b2blookuputils
---
b2bCompositeKeyLookup(
  "B2B-Customer-Order-Profile",
  {"PARTNER_ID": "PARTNER_001", "CUSTOMER_NAME": "ACME_RETAIL"},
  true
)
----

== Cross-Reference Lookup

Function: `b2bCrossReferenceLookup(tableName, columnName, columnValue, failIfNoMatchFound)`

> Use this function only with tables of type *Cross-Reference Lookup*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this function only with *Cross-Reference Lookup* table types.
```

=== Parameters

[%header,cols="1,1,1,3"]
|===
|Parameter |Type |Required |Description

|`tableName`
|String
|Yes
|Lookup table name.

|`columnName`
|String
|Yes
|Key column name.

|`columnValue`
|String
|Yes
|Value to search in the key column.

|`failIfNoMatchFound`
|Boolean (default `true`)
|No
|If `false`, the function returns empty data when no match is found.
|===

=== Response

[%header,cols="1,1,3"]
|===
|Field |Type |Description

|`status`
|String
|Lookup operation status.

|`errorMessage`
|String
|Error details when the operation fails.

|`data`
|Object
|Matching row data.
|===

Example:

[source,dwl]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
import * from modules::b2blookuputils
---

> b2bCrossReferenceLookup("Item Code Mapping", "Internal SKU", "SKU-5520", true)

Reviewer 2: Spaces are not allowed in the lookup table names or column names. We must fix all the examples in this topic.
